# Bgsc200804

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, April 2008= |

>  Thursday 24 April 2008
>  12:00 - 1:00
>  [All documents tabled at SC meetings](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/) along with all BeSTGRID documentation available in the [BeSTGRID Repository](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/)

Meeting to be held via **[EVO](http://evo.vrvs.org/)**

Issues for this meeting compiled from the [BeSTGRID project in JIRA](http://support.csi.ac.nz:8080/browse/BG)

- Attendees
- Nick Jones (Chair)
- Sam Searle (notes)
- Tim Chaffe
- Andrey Kharuk
- Chris Messom
- Martin Johnson
- Anton Gerdelan
- Robert Gibb
- Jenni Harrison
- John Hine
- Vladimir Mencl
- Robin Harrington
- Neil James

;Apologies

- Mik Black
- Gerrit Bahlman

;Previous Meeting

[March 20 2008](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228560)

- Next Meeting

[29 May 2008](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228864)

## Administration

- Review [action items from previous SC meeting](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228560#Bgsc200803-ActionItems)
	
- Nick added details about new AG nodes, updated by Robert Hamilton. This room is now supported through the central University of Auckland service desk, who manage internal and external (industry) bookings and support.
- Various conversations with SCIT members about EVO and general AVCC requirements: advice required from SCIT about how to move forwards. Positive update on EVO initiatives in Australian under auspices of ARCS (Nick): details to be circulated.
- John had forwarded details of TEC ESI grants (unsuccessful).
- Nick to write response to BioMatters re security restrictions via certificates for BLAST in Geneious. Nick wrote to Steve Stones-Havas [unnamed link](https://reannz.atlassian.net/wiki/404?key%3Dgmail.com%3Bsearch%3Fq%3Dtehbeatles) highlighting the concerns of the BeSTGRID community and other stakeholders. Meeting with Steve and Karin early next week to discuss in more detail. Will update SC once discussed.

- Next Steering Committee meeting to be agreed
	
- Date for next meeting agreed: 29/05/08.

### BeSTGRID Community

#### Proposed Membership

- Request from NZTE (John Houlker) for participation in Steering Committee. Interest is in capability build in eResearch and Grid, with a particular focus on engagement with and fostering local capability development and related industry growth, and in better understanding capability map in sector, with potential to support/endorse funding proposals.
	
- AGREED that building relationship with NZTE is necessary, but that at this stage their participation on an invitational basis would be the best way to structure this. Nick to follow up with NZTE.
- Robert Gibb, Landcare Research, is leading the KAREN CBF funded SCENZ Grid Geosciences grid computing project. This is multi institutional, and a first for grid computing in the CRIs. Auckland are collaborating in the capability building stage, and are keen to work closely ongoing. Would like to suggest membership in BeSTGRID Steering Committee.
	
- AGREED that greater linkages with CRI sector are required, and that Robert is ideal for this role. Welcome to Robert on behalf of everyone.

#### Outreach

- Digital Strategy being consulted: Jenni Harrison to discuss.
	
- MoRST (Jenni in particular) have worked hard to get research into the new v. of the Digital Strategy. This is out for consultation, and feedback from the research community will be vital. John suggests tying in more with agendas in education and community: might be easier to get traction that way, though it is also clear that the scope has expanded to include research and specific e-research section. (Though, Nick points out, no sections with related actions or funding attached to them.)
- AGREED to use wiki page to gather ideas and to have an EVO session in early May.
- AGREED that there are wider issues around lobbying (raised by Tim) that probably need to be addressed as a group in future as well. REANNZ under pressure to increase usage (John): route to doing this currently is through rapid expansion of membership to schools etc; research community needs need advocacy and industry linkages (Tim), business cases and business analysis (Robert). Tying e-research to Science Manifesto might be important.
- GOVIS panel, May 5th, Nick Jones
- MoRST Chat Shop, Mark Gahegan
- Victoria eResearch symposium, Victoria University, Mark Gahegan

#### Funding

- KAREN Institutional Capability Build Fund
	
- Organisations starting to hear back now about funding.
- KAREN Capability Build Fund
	
- No updates.
- RIAG proposal updates
	
- No updates.
- TEC ESI
	
- Discussion around possible further actions. Nick and Sam had both discussed with Janet Copsey, UoA, who suggested TEC might be open to a conversation. AGREED that this would need to be at a high level: follow up with Research Office contacts at UoA and Vic required.

#### Institutional Capability

- Auckland:
	
- Centre for eResearch  has funding underwritten for next 3 years, through end 2010, and is currently appointing staff.
- Negotiating contract for Institutional CBF.
- Massey:
	
- eResearch Coordinator
- Canterbury:
	
- Vladimir contract
- Victoria
	
- Two projects planned: 1. visualisation facility 2. automated conversion on legacy data/tools to web services (collaboration with Argonne). Both involve researchers, and budgets included payments for researcher time in establishing requirements, working on projects etc, as well as programmer time. Outputs: case studies.
- Otago
	
- No update
- All
	
- Champions appointed at each organisation might be good contacts for broadening community, though there may be others 'on the ground' more able to act as useful points of contact.

#### International Collaborations

- Proposed 'Affilate' status for BeSTGRID in ARCS
	
- Discussion continuing between Nick and Paul Bonnington and Tony Williams. ARCS supportive, working through a draft Memorandum of Understanding, to provide BeSTGRID a seat at the ARCS table, with non voting rights given the lack of a direct contribution to the programme.

### Federated IAM

- Meeting of the IMAGER committee
- Meeting of the IMAGER Working Group

## Progress Reports

### Massey

- [Connect New Zealand Seminar: Grid and Cluster Computing](http://www.connectnewzealand.com/Event?Action=View&Event_id=367)
- Anton's Karen Travel Proposal
	
- Visit to Grid-Ireland
- BeSTGRID@HOME
	
- Boinc BLAST collaboration

### Canterbury

- Current tasks: BlueGene job submission processes; grid tools pages on BG wiki; ARCS community liaison; Chch School of Medicine and Otago linkages - will utilise BG shared storage.
- Vladimir working with BlueFern group in May, so will be drop off in BG work during that period.

### Auckland

- APAN 26 Conference
	
- Telemedicine demonstration with Prof. John Windsor.
- BeSTGRID Auckland Cluster
	
- Some incompatibility issues with drivers/controllers and new hardware being sorted out by Andrey.
- early discussions with several groups, including:
		
- Bioinformatics, Allen Rodrigo, Bioinformatics Institute
- Marine, Mark Costello, Leigh Marine
- Wireless, Michael Neve, Wireless systems group
- Network Design & Simulation
	
- Visited WAND group, following up around potential for collaborations - focus previously has been international but now looking more at NZ. Other work at Waikato (Tony McGregor and Richard Nelson) on visualisation and deploying cluster.
- Met with Endace, who are looking at providing hardware to support network traffic measurement research at Auckland.
- REANNZ wiki - discuss potential for shibbolising
- Open Source Grid & Cluster Conference, San Fransisco, 12th - 16th May, Nick Jones
- SCENZ Grid
	
- Workshop at Auckland for SCENZ Grid team, collaborating on development of grid infrastructure and capability for Geosciences.

### Otago

- No update from Mik.
- Some issues with hardware failure in cluster causing some delays.

### Victoria

- Planning e-research symposium (targeted at Science faculty) in June. Mark Gahegan (UoA) and Neil Gemmell (Otago) will be guest speakers: also showcase VUW initiatives.
- Mandate from ITSOC, ITAAG and Research Committee to develop e-Research roadmap/strategy for VUW. Work is underway on this - aiming for end of April.
- Working closely with ITS on strategic plannning, researcher needs workshops, large file transfer tools: positive relationships.
- APAN 26: John and Sam, Kris Bubendorfer and Kyle Chard from Comp Sci also (established relationship with Argonne in grid computing area): will be difficult to get staff there based on existing programme info. Sam has suggested to Julie and Stuart Broughton that knowing who is participating from NZ will be key in getting people there (e.g. knowing about SCENZ-GRID workshop would encourage Vic SGEES staff and so on).
- E-Research Development Awards: hoping to offer 2 professional development awards to staff to enable them to attend a conference (e.g. eResearch Australasia, UK e-Science All Hands Meeting) that they would not normally be able to go to.

## New Business

- eResearch Australasia CFP: Presentations, workshops, and BoFs: 23 May. Posters and demos: 15 August.
	
- Some attendance planned from within BeSTGRID/KAREN communities.
- [APAN 26 Student Innovation Competition](http://www.karen.net.nz/apan26-innovation-comp/) - promote within your institutions.
	
- AGREED.
- Overview of work on SCENZ-GRID. Robert provided an overview of the SCENZ-GRID project which is trying to integrate geospatial data and workflows. Collaboration with GNS but broader connections with BeSTGRID, new NZ Geospatial Office and AuScope.

## Action Items

- Nick to follow up with NZTE (John Houlker) about participating in future meetings on an invitational basis.
- Nick to create [wiki page for ARCS](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228929) relationship and activities.
- Nick to circulate info re BioMatters following meeting.
- Sam to create [wiki page for Digital Strategy feedback](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228408) and to set up EVO meeting to discuss.
- John and Nick to follow up with UoA and VUW Research Offices re high-level meeting with TEC around ESI etc.

_*NOTOC*_
