# Bgsc200612Final

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

_*NOTOC*_

_*NOEDITSECTION*_

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, December 2006= |

Tuesday 19th December, noon - 1pm

- Note

[All documents tabled at meeting](https://support.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/200612/) available in [BeSTGRID Repository](https://support.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/)

Meeting to be held via **[EVO](http://nextgen-caltech.cern.ch/evoGate/)**

;Attendees:
- Paul Bonnington (Chair)
- Nick Jones
- Ian Bond
- Neil Gemmell
- Heath James
- Vladimir Mencl
- Andrey Kharuk

;Apologies:
- Martin Johnson (on leave)
- Nevil Brownlee (in San Diego)

- Previous Meeting

[5th December 2006](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228766)
- Next Meeting

[30th January 2007](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228946)

***Agenda***

1. Action Items review
2. Progress Reports
	
1. Canterbury
2. Massey
3. Auckland
3. Administration
4. New Business

## Action Items review

1. Neil provide specs etc on PAG cabinet to SC
2. : Neil waiting for shematic, will share once received.
3. Neil / Tim to discuss storage
4. : Discussions proved useful to subsequent negotiations. Vladimir to follow up with John Askew to obtain vendor contact details.
5. Neil to assess interest in BIRN node at Canterbury
6. : No immediate interest in BIRN node.
7. Martin to chase HR re programmer position advertisement
8. : Heath suggested contacting HoD to chase position, as funding is secured and project is being externally monitored so performance/meeting timelines a critical issue.
9. Martin to look at casual contract for student with Globus experience
10. : Student approached, is keen to take contract. Martin to report on contract details early in new year.
11. Martin to approach Massey re early order of Clusters in 2007
12. : Martin suggests this is in hand.
13. Nick to request for a guiding principle from TEC as to whether we can lease Clusters even though they're budgeted in Capital Expenditure. Contact Lyn Clarke at Research Office, find out who our post award coordinator is and communicate through them.
14. : Research Office are discussing issues with TEC and will come back with a response ASAP. --[nickdjones](nickdjonesbestgridorg.md) 09:30, 15 December 2006 (NZDT)
15. Nick to place milestones/budget on protected Steering Committee only WIKI page with current progress/status
16. : Milestones on [Category__Innovation Development Fund](category-innovation-and-development-fund.md) pages. Will now track status on these pages.
17. Nick to initiate EVO Reflector Node install at University of Auckland
18. : Phil Galvez contacted, Debian VM installed and ready for EVO team to perform install --[nickdjones](nickdjonesbestgridorg.md) 09:35, 15 December 2006 (NZDT)

## Progress Reports

### Massey University

>  Martin (in absentia)

1. re: 4. I've chased up HR but it's stuck in the VCs office for some reason. (not really a problem because of 5).
2. re: 5. I've asked one of our PhD students if he would like to work on the project and he is very keen, he has Globus experience so I'll arrange a casual contract.
3. re: 6. I don't think this will be a problem, we have to tender and by the time that happens funding will be in place.
4. I don't know anything more about KAREN here, I'll chase it up with ITS.

### University of Canterbury

>  Neil, Vladimir

1. Cabinets - waiting for schemas and will share with group through WIKI once received.
2. Storage (Neil/Vladimir) - evaluating solutions from HP, IBM, CoRaid, EMC, waiting on quote from EMC and CoRaid. Waiting on info, unlikely to make order before xmas. Vladimir to talk to John Askew to source contact details for vendors.
3. Another parallel IBM discussion around HPC storage might add to BeSTGRID storage discussion. Canterbury looking to align purchases.
4. Not much interest in purchasing a BIRN node at Canterbury.
5. Lease / Buy options for capital equipment still needs to be defined before serious negotiations can start, waiting for TEC response.
6. SGI, Nick Conomo approaching Canterbury re HPCs - APAC ANU national facility have SGI kit.

### University of Auckland

>  Paul, Nick

1. Gateway server arrived at ITS, currently being racked. Andrey to learn about the hardware this year. Andrey to document everything on wiki during setup of gateway computer.
2. Holiday until Jan 8th at Auckland, so not alot of progress expected until after this date.
3. Portals / VRE evaluation underway at Auckland. Looked at SAKAI, Confluence, ...
	
1. Paul demo'd BeSTGRIDs current SAKAI implementation.
2. Nick added information around the [SAKAI VRE demonstrator](http://rhine.dl.ac.uk:8080/portal) funded by JISC (user id: guest, password: demo).
4. EVO setup for other sites should follow same process as for Auckland, see Setting up an EVO Reflector.

## BeSTGRID Administration

1. Hardware procurement is running slow.
	
1. Noted that sharing of pricing very useful for negotiation with vendors, but constrained in some instances due to confidentiality clauses with some vendors.
2. Neil suggested vendor negotiation should happen on BeSTGRID behalf rather than as separate institutions. Suggest using the consortium language when in discussions with vendors.
2. Personnel issue at Massey a critical concern.
	
1. TEC funding of project an important factor as this is a strategic relationship, therefore reputation is a concern.
2. Funding for the position guaranteed so should be no budgetary concerns.
3. Heath has suggested the Computer Science HoD could chase, who will be back mid January. Heath to suggest to Martin and potentially make contact in Martin's absence.
3. Nick suggested running development discussion forums through the VRE to allow greater accessibility of technical details.

## New Business / Other

1. TEC rebid proposal still no final notice received.
	
1. Auckland Research Office noted there are personnel changes at TEC and that typically no news is good news.
2. Neil noted budget discussions have been had on one of the larger Canterbury projects
3. No final decisions yet notified yet.

## Summary of Action Items

1. Neil provide specs etc on PAG cabinet to SC
2. Martin to chase HR re programmer position advertisement
3. Martin to shared details of casual contract for student programmer
4. Nick to request for a guiding principle from TEC as to whether we can lease Clusters even though they're budgeted in Capital Expenditure.
5. Nick to place budget on protected Steering Committee only WIKI page with current progress/status
