# Bgsc200803

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, March 2008= |

>  Thursday 20 March 2008
>  12:00 - 1:00
>  [All documents tabled at SC meetings](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/) along with all BeSTGRID documentation available in the [BeSTGRID Repository](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/)

Meeting to be held via **[EVO](http://evo.vrvs.org/)**

Issues for this meeting compiled from the [BeSTGRID project in JIRA](http://support.csi.ac.nz:8080/browse/BG)

- Attendees
- Nick Jones (Chair)
- Sam Searle (notes)
- Mik Black
- Neil James
- Chris Messom
- Vladimir Mencl
- Robin Harrington
- Yuriy Halytskyy
- Mark Gahegan
- Tim Chaffe

;Apologies
- Jenni Harrison
- John Hine

;Previous Meeting

[February 28 2008](bgsc200802.md)

- Next Meeting

[24 April 2008](bgsc200804.md)

***Administration***
- Review [action items from previous SC meeting](bgsc200802.md#Bgsc200802-ActionItems)
	
- No items to review.
- Next Steering Committee meeting to be agreed
	
- Date for next meeting agreed: 24/04/08.

### BeSTGRID Continuity

- Auckland: VC and SMT have signed off on establishment of an eResearch Centre. This includes a small component of salary for a Director and a Manager. Mandate given to seek external funding.
- Massey: Anton moving to p/t will give some longevity. CBF Institutional Capability investment plan will contribute to admin/manager role. No funding available internal: relying on external grant applications.
- Canterbury: Likely that Vlad's contract will shortly be renewed for 3-4 months, possibly longer with input from Otago.

### Proposed 'Affilate' status for BeSTGRID in ARCS

- No further discussions yet due to travel commitments of involved people. Continuing discussions may take place at different levels: UoA library interested in data curation activities in wider Australasian context.

### MoRST Federated IAM

- Gerrit has been promoting IAM issues via SCIT. Talk of a capability building workshop series.
- Meeting of the group accepted the Terms of Reference (available in repository): seeking volunteers (e.g. Nick) to support various
- Unlimited Potential (group for IT professionals) and Catalyst IT hoping to organise a 2-day Barcamp on IAM in Wellington. Sam to circulate further details as they become available.

## Progress Reports

### Massey

Allan Wilson Centre Staff/ students certificates issued by Anton

- Interactive mode needs to be addressed at Massey

KiwiGenome@HOME sequences available next month
- Stand alone BLAST tested against Chicken Genome
- Aim to have BOINC BLAST ready for testing

[Connect New Zealand Seminar: Grid and Cluster Computing](http://www.connectnewzealand.com/Event?Action=View&Event_id=367)
- Thursday 27th March, breakfast
- Time: Registration at 8.00 a.m.
- Presentations: 8.30 a.m. â€“  9.30 a.m.
- Concludes with networking till 10.00 a.m.
	
- Location:  Auckland, e-centre Ltd, Gate 5, Massey University, Oaklands Road, Albany

### Canterbury

- Major activities around seeking further funding.
- Vlad presented at PRAGMA: well-received. Good networking opportunities.
- Vlad working with Marcus from VPAC on grid submission tool that might provide a useful alternative to the portal for some users.
- Robin and Vlad recertified. When old certs expire, new ones should be issued with correct country details etc: people will need to re-register, but goal is to have 'clean' certs.

### Auckland

- APAN 26 Conference
	
- Telemedicine demo: trials in June with full demo at APAN. Other demos likely to be in areas where CBF funding has been received.  Otago also looking at presenting: deciding whether technical/science perspective is most useful.
- BeSTGRID Auckland Cluster
	
- Andrey is away, but back soon so activity in early April.
- Introduce Yuriy Halytskyy
	
- New team member in ITS eResearch Support Services team.
- Introduce Mark Gahegan
	
- New Prof in UoA GGES and will be taking a leadership role in eResearch.
- Advanced Video Conferencing
	
- New node in [Graduate Centre](http://avcc.karen.net.nz/wiki/University_of_Auckland_-_Graduate_Centre). 15-16 bookings a week: also a meeting room. Still some work to do on lighting upgrades. VC, AG and EVO. Details to be posted on AVCC wiki. Also being used as commercial service, esp. by businesses making international linkages.
- Other nodes emerging in Science faculty.
- Work happening on support model: casual staff employed, users will have central booking process via ITS.

### Otago

- Mostly thinking about Condor work: requires Mik and Tim making contact.

## New Business

- Updates on funding applications
	
- TEC ESI: No word yet from TEC. John and Sam had been assured that it would be before Easter: Sam away but John will circulate any details as soon as they are available.
- KAREN CBF: Board meeting held this week: should be some outcomes soon.
- KAREN Institutional Capability: Should hear by mid-April.
- EVO
	
- SCIT were seeking clarification around costs of support. AARNet correspondence has suggested pricing structure of Silver Member (max 50 users) at US$8,000 p.a. or Gold Member (max. 200 users) at US$25,000 p.a. There is a suggestion that large research groups (200 ppl) wanting isolation as a single community would need to take out its own support arrangement with Caltech.
- Concerns about lack of formal requirements gathering and evaluation: would probably be needed for a good business case to be put together.
- EVO pluses include large community, distributed servers (good for latency), improvement process (e.g. new app sharing and visualisation tools), scalability and Shib integration. Downsides include usability, and some Mac and Linux issues.
- AARNet seeking more of a partner/development role, though CalTech are keen to retain their IP.
- REANNZ bridging service due to launch soon.

## Action Items

- Nick to add new [Graduate Centre](http://avcc.karen.net.nz/wiki/University_of_Auckland_-_Graduate_Centre) AG node details to AVCC website.
	
- Nick added, details updated by Robert Hamilton. This room is now supported through the central University of Auckland service desk, who manage internal and external (industry) bookings and support.
- Various folk to talk to SCIT members about EVO and general AVCC requirements: advice required from SCIT about how to move forwards.
- John to forward details of TEC ESI grants as soon as possible.
- Nick to write response to BioMatters re security restrictions via certificates for BLAST in Geneious.
	
- Nick wrote to Steve Stones-Havas `tehbeatles@gmail.com` highlighting the concerns of the BeSTGRID community and other stakeholders. Meeting with Steve and Karin early next week to discuss in more detail. Will update SC once discussed.

_*NOTOC*_
