# Bgsc200809

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, September 2008= |

>  Thursday 18 September 2008
>  12:00 - 1:00
>  [All documents tabled at SC meetings](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/)
>  Meeting held via **[EVO](http://evo.vrvs.org/)**. Meeting URL:
>  [http://evo.caltech.edu/evoGate/koala.jnlp?meeting=e8eteDv8v2auaIIiasI8](http://evo.caltech.edu/evoGate/koala.jnlp?meeting=e8eteDv8v2auaIIiasI8)

- Attendees
- Nick Jones (Chair)
- Mik Black
- Nevil Brownlee (Minutes)
- Anton Gerdelan
- Robin Harrington
- John Hine
- Neil James
- Martin Johnson,
- Vladimir Mencl
- Chris Messom

;Apologies

;Previous Meeting

[28 August 2008](bgsc200808.md)

- Next Meeting

[30 October 2008](bgsc200810.md)

## Administration

- Review [action items from previous SC meeting](bgsc200808.md#Bgsc200808-ActionItems):
	
1. APAN BoF notes on KAREN Wiki, lots of potential collaborations there (with points of contact) - Nick Jones
2. : [http://wiki.karen.net.nz/index.php/Trans_Tasman_eResearch_BOF](http://wiki.karen.net.nz/index.php/Trans_Tasman_eResearch_BOF)
3. Previous BG SC July minutes to be done - Nick Jones
4. : No progress.
5. eRA '08 BoF promotion propmotion scheduled.  Also network connection for some who can't attend in person - Nick Jones ++
6. : [http://www.eresearch.edu.au/jones2008](http://www.eresearch.edu.au/jones2008)
7. Request a Terms of Reference be established by members of the Technical WG at their September meeting
8. : To be discussed further below.
9. Discuss issues of narrow Bioinformatics focus within BeSTGRID at next SC
10. : To be discussed further below.

### BeSTGRID Community

#### Outreach

- eResearch promotion

- eResearch Australia (Melbourne)
- : Who's going from NZ? Nick, Yuri, Andrey, John H, Robin, Vladimir, Gerrit, ...

- KAREN champions outreach - who's involved?
- : Mik is interested (but not the champion, probably Mike Hart)
- : Session tomorrow morning, 1030-1100 (19 Sep), another following Fri, 9-9.30
- : Robin internal IT mtg, re-negotiating for next year (with REANNZ?)

- Conversations UA's been called into
- : CRI champions more aware of what's reqd, ask for BG presentations (on "what's eResearch").  ESR, HortResearch, Scion,  (Landcare, GNS ongoing)

- AusGrid '09, 20-23 Jan 2009.  CFP deadline 7 Sep 08
- : Coincident with Aus/NZ Computer Science week.
- : Robin/Yuri thinking about it, Nevil could maybe talk about Auckland activities
- : Paper submission paper now past.  Nick reviwing papers.  John H agrees, paper deadline past.

- MoRST funding gone quiet
- :  JH has mtg next week.  Jeni not replaced yet.
- :  Neil contacted by John Elwood - "what's identity management?"
- :  George Slim said (last imager mtg) MoRST bringing in consultant to work on how to distribute funding And other groups.

#### Funding

#### Institutional Reports

#### = Auckland=

- Participating in ARCS Grid Ops meetings
- : HortRes and bioinf concerns - phylogenetics vs bioinformatics, Ross Crowhurst
- : Mik not surprised by Ross comment, seems fair comment on portal (pass Stuart's (Otago techie) feedback to BG Tech WG
- : Anything we can say in responsde to HortRes?  Mike says they can use Otago portal, but it's only on an 8-proc system. MIT software.
- : Next Tech WG mtg 25 Sep, 1000.
- UA working with Jack Flannagan, high-throughput virtual screening processes, Ak cancer soc research centre, drug discovery.  Not using any open-source software.

#### = Massey=

- Anton's Ireland trip report
- : Organisation of Grid Ireland activity, centralised group for infrastructure, works very well.  Own all the 'external' (not on campuses) systems.
- : Additional workflow tools being developed. (Nick comment - HCI not good for many of our tools.)

#### = Canterbury=

- Vladimir is back. Redoing CU Shibboleth Identity Provider.
- : Can now creats aRCS certificates using Shibboleth assertions. EduPerson attribute now configured properly - identify whether a student actually is a student.  Used to get software from Microsoft for free.
- : Nick: Ryan Turk, BeSTGRID and DreamSPARK - suggested he work with his colleagues in Aus.  Is BeSTGRID the best place to provide access to this?
- : Robin: good reason to have an IDP working.  Allows access to more than just Wikis.  OK for it to be in BeSTGRID.
- : JH: really like to keep BG focus narrow, but that leaves lots of users out.
- : Vlad: CU and UA already included in program.
- : Nick: Imager Forum - offer collaboration with BG around REANZ and national education network.
- : Robin: Real work in creating short-term certificates, offers real benefit to users in giving education community access to grid resources.
- : Vlad: certificate alone doesn't give access, also need authorisation from resource owners.  What namespace should we use for short-term certs?  Suggest bestgrid.org.nz as alias for bestgrid (gets nz into name). Agreed, Nick to register it.

#### = Victoria=

- 12-screen vis wall up and running, demo to Paul Hutchison (National spokesperson), MoRST and FoRST.  Worked very well.
- eResearch programmer (Kevin Buckley) joined, will pass his email address to Vladimir
- GNS: delivered GEONET data at rates around 100Mb/s.
- : Will become a published service (Geoinformatics?)
- : Nick: Louis at Monash, interested in seismic data from NZ.  will send email (it's on Nic'ks Trans-Tasman BOF summary).
- : eResearch Group proposal in VUW planning process.
- : eResearch Aus - cyclotron tour?  Nicki Gardiner?

#### = Otago=

#### = Landcare=

#### International Collaborations

- ARCS:
	
- Email from Tony Williams - meeting at eRA '08 to progress
- PRAGMA:
	
- No change

### Working Groups

#### BeSTGRID Technical WG

- Membership; terms of reference; (Vladimir is the WG's current chair)
- : How should we organise their interaction with SC?
- : What should the WG have as its Terms of reference?
- :Robin: could make recommendations/proposals, present to SC? Otherwise Steering Committee could state an issue and ask TWG to work on it.
- : Nick: no pro-active approach to demonstrating Grid - needs access to services across many sites.  What services do all sites have to run?
- : Robin + Vladimir to draft ToR for next meeting.

#### ARCS Grid Ops

- Vladimir, Andrey attending regularly
- : TWG is involved with ARCS Grid

#### Federated IAM

- IMAGER group
- : Waiting for George to call next mtg of group.
- : We need to tell him we're definitely interested.

#### Trans Tasman eResearch

- Focus on outcomes from APAN BOF

## New Business

- ARCS SLCS Short-Lived Certificate Service: what namespace should BeSTGRID use?
	
- Is `/DC=org/DC=bestgrid/DC=slcs` appropriate?

- PRAGMA meeting in Malaysia in a month
- : Vladimir needs  travel funding to go.
- : PRAGMA holds meetings every 6 months.  Nick will explore possibilities.
- : Robin comments that involvement is what's important, not necessarily regular meeting attendance.
- : Vladimir working on making CU resources available to PRAGMA and vice versa. No-one in NZ is using that capability now.
- : Nick: we need to understand the Science drivers so as to decide which PRAGMA WGs we should engage with.

## Action Items

1. Previous BG SC July minutes to be done - Nick Jones
2. Draft ToR for next meeting - Robin & Vladimir
3. Explore funding opportunities for PRAGMA meeting attendance - Nick Jones

_*NOTOC*_
