# Bgsc200712.2

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

_*NOTOC*_

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, Final 2007= |

>  Thursday 20 December 2007
>  12:00 - 1:00
>  [All documents tabled at SC meetings](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/) along with all BeSTGRID documentation available in the [BeSTGRID Repository](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/)

Meeting to be held via **[EVO](http://evo.vrvs.org/)**

Issues for this meeting compiled from the [BeSTGRID project in JIRA](http://support.csi.ac.nz:8080/browse/BG)

- Attendees
- Paul Bonnington
- Nick Jones (Chair)
- Neil James
- John Corey
- Robin Harrington
- Vladimir Mencl
- Andrey Kharuk
- Nevil Brownlee
- Sam Searle
- John Hine
- Roger Cliffe
- Gerrit Bahlman
- Jenni Harrison

;Apologies
- Mik Black
- Chris Messom

;Previous Meeting

[December 6 2007](bgsc200712.md)
- Next Meeting

[January 31 2008](bgsc200801.md)

***Administration***
- Review [action items from previous SC meeting](bgsc200712.md#Bgsc200712-ActionItems)
- Proposed date for (first) [January 2008 Steering Committee meeting](bgsc200801.md) to be agreed
	
- Agreed 31st January as next meeting date.

## BeSTGRID Continuity Planning

- Thank you to Paul Bonnington for Chairing the Steering Committee and being the inaugural BeSTGRID Director. Succession by Nick Jones confirmed.

***EVO Community Subscription***
- Discuss options for BeSTGRID community subscription, which raised the following issues:
	
- Issues with platform support - audit and review with Philippe
- useability - discuss opportunities to carry out user centered reviews
- QoS - discuss frameworks for measurement of edge network congestion and UDP packet loss
- user management - shibbolised EVO could facilitate this
- Sam suggested that need to go through a formal requirements gathering process and evaluation
- Paul noted that ARCS have agreed to formally support several services:
	
- Access Grid
- EVO
- Skype
- Jabber
- Paul noted that EVO is formally to replace VRVS by mid 2008. June 2007 saw 30,000 registered users and 10,000 sessions for the previous 12 months.
- Robin noted that HD VC at REANNZ is being pushed, also this is happening with ARRNET
- Gerrit raised that this is most likely a KAREN service as has happened in Australia
- John Hine notes VUW has started a formal review exercise around desktop collaboration systems. Will follow up and feedback in January
- Nick noted this paper written by Sam and coopted for BeSTGRID by Paul [http://www.bestgrid.org/index.php/EVO_in_NZ](http://www.bestgrid.org/index.php/EVO_in_NZ)
- Gerrit noted that there was a SCIT workshop on Teaching and Learning toolsets attended by IT directors and eLearning directors held at VUW facilitated by Neil James.
- Neil noted that there is a recognition of the need for hetrogenous systems to support a variety of use cases
- Neil gave a presentation to directors of IT and CRIs. Response was around Access Grid is not a tool of particular interest as they don't have the group to group collaboration requirements
- Robin noted another issue from the Wellington workshop around quality issues which need to be addressed as a community. Neil noted that Nathan's CBF funded work in QA is ongoing.
- Gerrit has offered to raise this to the IT Directors forum which was gratefully accepted.

## Proposed 'Affilate' status for BeSTGRID in ARCS

- Paul notes we haven't formally approached ARCS. This came from Robert Woodcocks suggestion that we do this as a member of ARCS. This is a mechanism to facilitate or formalise a knowledge transfer process and collaboration between Australia and NZ. Paul will sound out Rhys Francis once in Melbourne to discuss this and better understand the nature and process.
- This would likely be BeSTGRID 2

## MoRST Federated IAM

- Martin Rothbaums ESAA demo to sector ICT managers on Wednesday 20 December ran well
- VRE testing with MoE on hold until early in the new year

## Sakai demo

- Sam noted that what was required isn't a demo of how to set it up, but rather a walk through of how it is used. Proposed that this is done at the end of this SC meeting via EVO. Vladimir and Sam to do so at 1.30pm.

## Progress Reports

### Massey

No report filed

### Canterbury

- Vladimir working with Otago to bring their Cluster into BeSTGRID
- IAM Programme
	
- Vladimir working with Nathan to bring the AVCC website into BeSTGRID Federation
- Vladimir working to support AAF meta data issues with BeSTGRID WAYF with Andrey

### Auckland

BeSTGRID Auckland Cluster

- Quotes received for Cluster for Bio Informatics and other areas
- SGI and Public provided competitive quotes, proceeding with Public [http://www.public.co.nz](http://www.public.co.nz)

IAM Programme
- See notes in Canterbury progress report.
- Daniel Particks NZ SSDS [http://www.nzssds.org.nz](http://www.nzssds.org.nz) services being federated early in the new year, including the NESSTAR data archive system
- In discussion with Robert Ackland (ANU) around further development of their grid services platform for social sciences, which NZ SSDS have funding to continue to develop

KAREN and BeSTGRID demonstration of >1Gbps proposed

Grid-enabled BioMatters Geneious
- [http://www.reannz.co.nz/new-Geneious-first-for-BeSTGRID/](http://www.reannz.co.nz/new-Geneious-first-for-BeSTGRID/)

Geosciences
- Geosciences materials currently being collated for publication on www.bestgrid.org
- Robert Woodcock proposed before his departure from the GEON workshop that his team would seek to integrate the GEON portal framework with the Auscope federated data repositories by end of Jan 2008
- Robert Gibb has discussed with REANNZ (Julie Watson) changes to the SCENZ GRID project to allow collaboration with BeSTGRID on storage, gateways, and clusters to prototype initial systems. This will allow SCENZ GRID to build more focused capability sooner without requiring as much technical stretch.

## New Business

- Nick noted that Cluster Management and deployment models for computational development groups is becoming an item for discussion
	
- Paul has suggested Nimrod as a potential platform to support this model, which could be a point of contact with Monash (lead institution).
- Report back from Jenni and Sam on Min of Ed ICT Strategic Framework Workshop (Monday 17 December)
	
- Sam noted that her attendance was to see where the ICT Strategic Framework is positioned with respect to Research. MoE noted that currently research is under represented.
- No formal feedback required at this stage, as there are other fora for raising research specific issues. A further refinement of the document will be available in the new year.
- Update from John H on Capability Build Advisory Panel activities?
	
- REANNZ board made a decision at last board meeting to allocate $50k to each institution. Intended to ensure each institution puts some effort in on submission of a plan. Envisioned that at each institution this will focus a programme or project leader/manager at each institution.
- This does impact on current round of CBF proposals, with less money in the pot. This will be finalised on 12th January, and announced in January.
- Each institution should have received this letter by now.
- [http://www.karen.net.nz/criteria/](http://www.karen.net.nz/criteria/)  details the process and dates for this funding to be secured.

## Action Items
