# Bgsc200808

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, August 2008= |

>  Thursday 28 August 2008
>  12:00 - 1:30
>  [All documents tabled at SC meetings](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/)
>  Meeting held via **[EVO](http://evo.vrvs.org/)**

- Attendees
- Nick Jones (Chair)
- Nevil Brownlee (Minutes)
- John Corey
- Robin Harrington
- Yuriy Halytsky
- Neil James
- Andrey Kharuk

;Apologies

- Mark Gahegan
- John Hine
- Vladimir Mencl

;Previous Meeting

[24 July 2008](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3816950658)

- Next Meeting

[18 September 2008](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3816950636)

## Administration

- Review [action items from previous SC meeting](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3816950658#Bgsc200807-ActionItems):

No followup issues raised.

### BeSTGRID Community

#### Outreach

- APAN 26 Queenstown
	
- Very good participation: 330 registered, half from NZ.  A few from FoRST, MoRST and MED
- RAOs (Registration Authority Operators)
- : Good coverage of NZ now. Alan Rodrigo and Ian Forrester referred to BeSTGRID, highlighting the need to get involved with infrastructure developments.
- :Robin commented that Vladimir and Sam signed up four additional RAOs
	
- Trans-Tasman BOF session, very well attended.  Good roundup of what's happening
- NZ Supercomputer Centre, Scott Houston
- : Now keen to be a resource provider to BeSTGRID.
- : Doing developments in Bioinformatics. Green button in Geneious.
- : Similar to BlueFern, allow people to get experience with infrastructure.
- : Scott hasn't set % available to BeSTGRID yet.
- : Resources: blade servers, under 2GHz processors.  Don't have very fast interconnections between processors.
- : Sounds like a good idea, general agreement.
- : Need policy on non-commercial use of University infrstructure

- eResearch promotion
- : Expressions of interest - how can we be more proactive?  Road show?  Discussions with member institutions?
- : Need greater coverage of institutions.  Could BeSTGRID Board members participate?
- : Try to coordinate this better - survey of current and future possibilities?
- : REANNZ to follow up on this, will probably need some funding.
- : General expressions of support

- Videoconferencing technologies
- : Scion, NIWA, Lincoln, ... are all interested in becoming users of systems like EVO.
- : Heart of all this is the REANNZ AV bridge.
- : Also, AARNET say 'high-def bridge is essential.'
- : Users will pay a little more for an easier-to-use system, especially for non-technical users.
- : Life-size, room-based systems are very good.
- : There are other possibilities, e.g. Mirial (desktop High-def, Canterbury),
- : but cost is ~$300 per desktop, only on Windows.
- : Robin happy to circulate Canterbury's report on this, as well as a similar document from Australia.

- eResearch Australia (Melbourne)
- : Coming up soon

- AusGrid '09, 20-23 Jan 2009.  CFP deadline 7 Sep 08.
- : Coincident with Aus/NZ Computer Science week.
- : Robin/Yuri thinking about it, Nevil could maybe talk about Auckland activities

#### Funding

- Nothing to report
- Robin reports REANNZ have provided travel funding to get Yuri to AusGrid

#### Institutional Reports

#### = Auckland=

- Cluster running at about 30% capacity on average. Building momentum proving difficult, requiring constant engagement and development focus.
- Data Storage - Have had request to host data sets from both Synchrotron and Gene Sequencers, so investigating GridFTP onto headnode, as ng2 configuration connects from a VM via NFS, causing bottleneck for large data transfers.
- Participating in ARCS Grid Ops meetings. Some notes below.
- Participating in BeSTGRID Grid Ops meetings. Some notes below.
- Mark Gahegan and Nick Jones presented to ~ 60 - 70 ppl (3 IT, rest science) at Hort Research, on Tuesday 26 August. Receiving a lot of comment and questions.
- : Ross Crowhurst, biostatistician at HR, sceptical about Bioinformatics - not the same as phlyogenetics!
- : Be careful not to oversell what we do.  Coordinated approach to managing gene sequence data among the groups working with it.
- : Noted the need to discuss concerns from Bioinformaticians, and comments about collaboration not being seen

#### = Massey=

- No report

#### = Canterbury=

- Vladimir working on Wiki evaluations. Away for a few weeks, need to get him working in the data sapce

#### = Victoria=

- No report

#### = Otago=

- No report

#### = Landcare=

- No report

#### International Collaborations

- ARCS:
	
- Email from Tony Williams - ARCS in final stages, waiting for finalisation of last Exec Comm minutes before approaching us
- PRAGMA:
	
- No change

### Working Groups

#### BeSTGRID Technical

- Membership; terms of reference; chair
	
- Vladimir to Chair
- First meeting held, Vlad reports:
		
- at the beginning of the meeting, I got to explain the ARCS plans to issue short lived certificates (SLCS) based on shibboleth assertions, and everyone got attracted by the idea.
- when I later asked for each institution what their most critical issue is, everyone was asking for getting their Shibboleth IdP going, in order to get access to the SLCS certificates. I think this should be somehow passed to the right people (?IT directors) to make them raise Shibboleth on their internal priority list.
- the working group agreed to meet again on Thu Sept 25, 10am (on EVO) - you might pass this information on for other institutions to join.
- We had only Auckland, Canterbury, Victoria and Otago participating - no one from Massey (Anton sent an apology) and did not get anyone from Waikato (invited Tony McGregor) nor Lincoln/AUT.
- : BeSTGRID Steering Committee needs to think about terms of reference for the Tech WG, also what do we want them to work on?  (Future SC Agenda item)

#### ARCS Grid Ops

- Vladimir, Andrey attending regularly
- Hosting grid ops sessions at eRA '08, demonstrating many tools and systems. Still finalising details.
- Many detailed technical discussions on architecture, systems, etc. Working collaboratively to test version upgrades, new components and platforms, share knowledge, and generally progress infrastructure.
- Session for eResearch Australia, to demonstrate tools, e.g. grisu

#### Federated IAM

- IMAGER group met again, awaiting minutes, Nick to discuss
	
- Jenni Harrison handed over to George Slim, who offered strong support to the IMAGER group and committed to continuing MoRSTs sponsorship and participation.
- MoRST looking to hire consultant to analyse sectors needs and pull together a draft paper on issues, for consultation by IMAGER and other interested parties. Feedback / suggestions on parties to be consulted appreciated - to Nick or Neil James.
- The resulting paper will guide investment by MoRST of budget '08 IAM funding, which has to be allocated before June '09.
- Robin: expressed concern that Min of Edu is gaining visibility in this, and that they're not too interested in AAF.
- : Nick noted that Min of Edu are actively engaged in promoting the IMAGER group and Tertiary Research sector needs. Doesn't see specific issues manifesting currently.

#### Trans Tasman eResearch

- Focus on outcomes from APAN BOF

## New Business

- NZSC propose to join BeSTGRID. Discussion requested
- : Discussion related above.
- Bioinformatics Portal - comments on narrow focus on Phylogenetics. Discussion requested.
- : Discussion deferred until better Bioinformatics representation at a future SC.

## Action Items

- APAN BoF notes to be done - Nick Jones
- Previous BG SC July minutes to be done - Nick Jones
- eRA '08 BoF promotion - Nick Jones ++
- Request a Terms of Reference be established by members of the Technical WG at their September meeting
- Discuss issues of narrow Bioinformatics focus within BeSTGRID at next SC

_*NOTOC*_
