# Bgsc200709.1

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

_*NOTOC*_

_*NOEDITSECTION*_

=BeSTGRID Steering Committee meeting, September 2007= |

>  Wednesday 5 September 2007
>  12:00 - 1:00
>  [All documents tabled at SC meetings](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/community/sc/) along with all BeSTGRID documentation available in the [BeSTGRID Repository](https://svn.csi.ac.nz/svn/bestgrid/)

Meeting to be held via **[EVO](http://evo.vrvs.org/)**

Issues for this meeting compiled from the [BeSTGRID project in JIRA](http://support.csi.ac.nz:8080/browse/BG)

- Attendees

Paul Bonnington (Chair)

Nick Jones

Vladimir Mencl

Sam Searle

Gerrit Bahlman

Chris Messom 

Martin Johnson 

Anton Gerdelan

Nevil Brownlee

Robin Harrington

Andrey Kharuk

John Corey
- Apologies

John Raine

Neil Gemmell

Tim Chaffe
- Previous Meeting

[August 23 2007](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228943)
- Next Meeting

[October 25 2007](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228726)

***Administration***
- Review [action items from previous SC meeting](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228943#Bgsc200708.2-ActionItems)

**TEC ESI Big**
- Sam Searle suggested that the email discussion is getting lengthy, and that perhaps workshopping the current materials would be useful. Sam to suggest to John Raine.
- Robin Harrington requested to be added to the conversation. Paul to introduce.

**Subcontracts**
- Paul has forwarded draft subcontracts for UoA RO to Neil and Chris. Paul will forward a copy to Robin given Neil is travelling
- Paul apologised for delays in getting these contracts out. Main delay has been in getting contracts signed with TEC.

**Federated Identity Management**
- Shibbed-Wiki (BeSTGRID) - test site is at [https://wiki.bestgrid.org/](https://wiki.bestgrid.org/). Account names are preserved from current production site, but passwords have been reset to "bestgridpassword". Communications plan will be released for review to SC before release to the community.
- AAF - now a full level 2 member of AAF. Currently the above wiki.bestgrid.org is open to members at level 1, which will be restricted to level 2 in time.
- Education Services Authorisation and Authentication (ESAA) - MoE have created a SSO facility for education services, which contains National Student Numbers along with other databases. Paul has approached to suggest that they become a member of BeSTGRID federation and AAF, with our guideance, which is consistent with the KAREN roadmap. Paul waiting for response.
- Vladimir attended AAF workshop last week, and believes he now has the knowledge to setup the UC IdP and a further instance of the portal as a shib service.
- Nick to arrange a session between Eric and Vladimir to discuss shibboleth, IdPs, etc.

**BioPortal**
- Paul commented portal is operating very nicely, with compliments to Tobias (BioMatters) and Vladimir.
- BioInformatics people at UoA are going to review and do some functional testing.
- Auckland resources are not currently showing up, related to issues with MDS. Vladimir and Andrey are working on this.
- Paul wrote to Neil to suggest that portal is Shibbolised. This received a positive response though there is currently no budget. Eric, at UoA, can offer up services to contribute to this project.

**Sakai VRE and EVO**
- Paul notes that the VRE now has 500 users across 60 projects, which is a good milestone. Paul noted the impact of the CRI workshops run by Sam Searle as increasing this utilisation.
- JISC have received another 2m to continue to enhance the VRE
	
- [http://www.jisc.ac.uk/whatwedo/programmes/programme_vre/vre_sakai_portal.aspx](http://www.jisc.ac.uk/whatwedo/programmes/programme_vre/vre_sakai_portal.aspx)
- Gerrit made a query as to the type of utilisation. Paul described the use as being mostly around document/content management.
- Gerrit queried whether the current sakai instance could help with Masseys internal evaluation of a variety of LMS platforms. Paul confirmed that this is fine. Nick noted that there are some LMS components that aren't in the VRE, and will pass on documentation that specifically discusses this.
- Sam noted from her experience that:
	
- NZ Statistical Association sharing resources
- GNS - GEON project NZ component sharing resources through this environment

**Outcome of CRI workshops**
- Sam forwarded evaluation responses from workshops to Paul, Nick, to demonstrate the value of the VRE approach taken by BeSTGRID. Sam will also forward this to REANNZ as a demonstration of the appreciation of value within the community.

***Progress Reports***
**Massey**
- Compute GRID
	
- Globus:
		
- Virtual machines access bestgrid head node and real job queues.
- Globus based forked job submission to real queues completed
- Working on globus based mpi job submission to real queues
- BestGRID SGI Cluster
		
- SGI cluster burn in almost complete
- Linpack rating of 1.758 Teraflops versus a maximum of 2.2 Teraflops
			
- This is linearly scalable from a single node (8 processors) of 68 Gflops to 26 nodes (208 processors)
- UPS upgrade completed, switched in by the end of the week
- Testing users, from Computer Science on stream
- Testing users, from Computational Chemistry on stream
- Internal users on stream by next, external ssh users by mid September
- Storage GRID
	
- Lustre file system complete
- Potential Capability build proposal on lustre file system for virtualisation
		
- Currently some new infiniband drivers for Xen but no lustre support for virtualisation
- Spin off benefit to developing lustre capability in New Zealand to support HPC storage
- KAREN Event support- Grid Computing and eScience Summer School
	
- Paul proposed renaming to "Grid Computing and eResearch Summer School", supported by BeSTGRID committee
- VUW likely to hold their workshop mid year rather than jan/feb. So need to break planned link.
- Due to holidays (Auckland day, Waitangi day, School holidays) targetting mid Feb for summer school. Need to break link with AusGRID 2008 (jan 22-25).
- Chris to host Wellington campus, Martin to host Auckland campus
- Use mediasite to pre-record all material for use in case of network/ software faults, also presentation videos and slides available after event
- Nick noted that there are some great Creative Commons resources from the SDSC CI Channel that could be reused: [http://www.cichannel.org/](http://www.cichannel.org/)
- Andre Barczak to present mpi programming model from Brazil (if possible). Otherwise mediasite recorded presentation
- Formally invite other potential hosts ?
		
- Require AccessGRID node like environment (to support EVO at least)
- Require 1 host (local organiser) + 1 technical officer to support EVO + mediasite player + lab sessions
- All course materials will be developed by Massey and Australian invited speaker (unless we have volunteers)
- Anton conference travel
	
- attending cluster 2007 and GRID 2007:

**Canterbury**
- Vladimir attended AAF conference and now heading into planning session on institutional IdP etc
- Vladimir looking for further applications to add to the Portal.
- Paul reinforced that the BioPortal would be valuable to push beyond the BioInformatics researchers, which has general support from all.

**Auckland**
- Paul is putting a bid into KAREN CBF to bring a VPAC person to come to NZ for a tour to sign up RAO's locally. Sam offered her support to ensure the importance to all institutions of this approach is apparent.
- Work in last few weeks has been on shib activity, and specifically on production release of these applications.
- MoRST Chat Shop October 26th - opportunity to emphasise the importance of grid technologies, and to better engage with MoRST. Paul, Nick, Sam, John Raine to represent.

***New Business***
- USP (Fiji) are now on Aarnet and looking for collaborators.

***Action Items***

1. Sam Searle to approach John Hine about convening a TEC ESI access grid working session
2. Nick Jones to forward information with regards differences between Sakai uses as a VRE and an LMS
3. Nick Jones to arrange liaison between Eric Jiang and Vladimir to discuss AAF, Shib work done at Auckland
	
- Several meetings held to share knowledge on this work. Vladimir will report on progress during next SC meeting.
