# BgscDigitalStrategyFeedbackReview

um,,uc,,ua,,sc

Review of the [BgscDigitalStrategyFeedback](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3818228408) discussion to formulate the official BeSTGRID eResearch submission.

# Attendees

- Sam Searle (Chair)
- Nick Jones (Notes)
- John Hine
- Robert Gibb
- Jenni Harrison
- Mik Black
- John Corey
- Neil James

# Digital Strategy Feedback

agenda:

10.35   Review "How we need to provide feedback" and decide which channels

we want to use (in order of importance), and who will be responsible for

disseminating information where and when

- Nick led discussion on potential channels, as outlined in the Feedback page
- Robert contributed additional channel of editorial team of Computerworld.
- Nick noted that CONZUL and Information Management working group making submissions, which Janet was keen to support.
- Nick noted that SCIT are also making a submission, which Stephen was keen to sponsor.
- Mik queried whether institutions were making submissions.
- HRC are keen to be involved in submissions, happy to support an eResearch submission.
- Sam & Nick raised hands to coordinate submission
- Robert reinforced value of making submisssions via multiple channels to ensure competing voices in harmony.
- Mik raised issue of lack of education use of KAREN, and of education to use capability, is critical.
	
- Neil felt this wasn't the right channel, but that individuals should promote this response within their institutions
- John noted that University teaching development centres are potentially making a response.
- Nick suggested noting to other potential stakeholder groups the work we're doing, provide a snapshot of it, and encourage to do same.
- Mik suggests placing some starters for conversation on the wiki, noting that we are making a submission. John suggested this could be casual or individual. Robert noted that no or negative comment could be detrimental. Nick happy to put hand up to do this.
- Agreed that Sam and Nick will work on formal submission, and when in an agreed state, could make submission to the wiki and comments areas.

11.00   Review "Framing Comments", and ask Jenni to provide brief

background on the process to date (and what happens to submissions, if

that is known?)

- Parties have been contributing for 4 - 5 months, from just before Digital Futures Summit in 2007
- Designed as a high level cross government for whole of NZ, consumable by every person.
	
- Need to be very high level, minimalist, consumable generally.
- Keep contributions punchy, short.
- Not aware of what will happen after the consultation process. Have been very involved to date, so expectation is that this will continue. Contributions from the sector will aid in gaining a voice during this subsequent process.
- Logistics: Jenni unsure of whether the final form of the document will be retained. Don't get too bogged down with placement of specific content.
- Sam noted the significant effort Jenni and colleagues at MoRST have contributed to get this far.

11.05   Roundtable discussion

- John: accept the challenge of defining eResearch for the man on the street. Needs to reflect the outcome.
	
- Sam: noted that the language used in Nicks statement isn't general enough for research as well as science.
- John: noted that refining the callout box is a priority, which Nick endorsed.
- Sam: noted that perhaps a focus on collaboration is a good way to bridge across disciplines.
- Nick: How to get the interests and needs of science and research within the document.
		
- Jenni: Having the callout box is useful positioning. To make this more critical and integrated need to think about how it can bleed into other areas.
- Sam: Are outcomes adequately represented?
	
- John: Noted that grid computing from an outcome perspective is about shared resource. Mik refined to say this should be raised to a higher level of value, fitting into the goverments 3 goals (economic transformation, families young & old, national identity).
- John: Noted that Collaboration Action Items is an area of additional potential contribution.
- Jenni: Noted that need to find a middle ground, that is broadly useful.
- John: Having a specific action around supporting research infrastructure, perhaps relating to RIAG.
- Mik: noted economic impacts are useful as a means of encouraging interest, by way of exemplar. e.g. Sheep Genome.
- Sam: queried whether we want to point to specific actions. Generally agreed that this was desireable. Noted that these are actions for Government agencies, so need to propose in a way that fits within this framework.
- Nick: Suggests that RIAG, along with the RIAG scan document and the NZ Science Agenda could be used as the basis for a MoRST led review leading to an investment strategy in eResearch infrastructure.
		
- Robert: noted that the synergies in a coordinated strategy, as exemplified by NCRIS, are achievable, but need a better leadership and coordination to ensure they are realised.
- Mik: suggested that rephrasing to be research + digital to be more general. Noting that these are common collaborative themes encompassed inside many of the projects identified in the RIAG scan.
- John: need to recognise that the collaborative middleware infrastructure is missing, ie in the mode of NCRIS
- Robert: should we refer to NCRIS specifically, and how we might collaborate
- Nick: noted that the document is broken into a couple of parts. The early part of the document is focused around current aspirations and programmes, whereas pg 41 on talks about "What will it take?"

11.50   Next steps

- Nick and Sam to discuss how to move this forward.
- May need to structure into the submission form format. Will identify and circulate.
- Sam: Any missing issues:
	
- Neil: Rationalising of the underlying infrastructures (KAREN, GSN, etc). Little action in bringing these together.
		
- Nick: noted that the issues related to coordination across agencies are known to be structural, in that the coorindation mechanisms don't exist across the agencies.
- Neil: would fit best in the connectivity area.
- Robert: noted that a collaboration infrastructure as being about connectivity, relies on the initial investments in physical networks. So this is a later stage evolution.
- John: rationalisation might not be the right terminology. Interoperability and coordination is probably more the issue. Removing any barriers to collaboration.
- Sam: will update the SC on process from here. Short time frames suggest contributions need to be responsive.

12.00   Close

_*NOTOC*_
