# Meeting__GEON Auckland Teleconference 2

sc,,geon

[Workshop Administrivia](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3816950943)

- 7 November 2007

10:00 - 11:15am NZST

## Participants

- Nick Jones (Chair)
- Mark Gahegan
- Iain Matcham
- Robert Gibb
- David O'Sullivan
- Paul Bonnington

## Agenda & Minutes

1. Review new issues
	
- Robert Gibb had this morning met with Brendan Whiteman from the [LINZ Geospatial Office](http://www.linz.govt.nz/publications/landscan/landscanapr07/index.html#2).
- **Brendan was happy to coordinate sending out announcements about the workshops to colleagues and members of the NZ Geo Forum.*Robert** to action.
- **Robert suggested Brendan would be an appropriate person to present during the afternoon sessions on local activity from a all of government perspective.*Robert** to action.
2. Registrations
3. **[Registrations](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3816951010)**** will be updated as received by*Nick**.
4. Publicity
5. ***Robert** will approach Brendan Whiteman as noted above.
6. ***Nick** has approached Vicki Lindsay from REANNZ to make an email announcement via the REANNZ mailing list.
7. ***David** will contact Colin Wilson and Pip Forer and request they forward details around the department and to their colleagues at other institutions
8. ***Mark** will contact colleagues in NZ and Australia to ensure they are aware of the workshop.
9. Presenters for Driving Collaboration Workshop
10. ***Nick** to first draft the schedule for this day, then identify people who still need to be approached, then confirm schedule with all.
11. Technical Requirements
	
- Nick has emailed Mark and CC all others to ensure everyone is aware that this is coming.
1. Technical Requirements for GEON Node at Auckland
2. ***Mark** to liaise with Sandeep, Nick. Nick to introduce to Andrey.
3. Technical Requirements for GEON Workshop participants
4. ***Mark** to liaise with Dogan, then follow up with David and Graeme
12. Workshop Schedules
	
1. Driving Collaboration Workshop Schedule
2. ***Nick** to draft
3. GEON Workshop Schedule
4. ***Mark** to draft with Dogan
13. Host from SGGES
	
- Need SGGES representative to introduce speakers and sessions, and to generally ensure the SGGES side runs smoothly on the days.
14. ***David** to discuss playing a host role with Ross McCallum
15. Next teleconference, 20 November 10am.
16. ***Nick** to setup.
	
- Agenda: [Meeting__GEON Auckland Teleconference 3](/wiki/spaces/BeSTGRID/pages/3816950763)

_*NOTOC*_
